---
project: project_design
title: Updating a project
---

What is there to say? It turns out, lots.

This is where your electrical engineering design skills come into play,
where the human factors of connector locations, aesthetic board layout
and manufacturability come into focus.

-   Trace widths matter - too thin and they won\'t make it thru the
    fabrication process, too thick and they won\'t all fit where they
    need to go. The Design Rules are usually provided by your chosen fab
    house, and tell you the smallest things they can reliably do, the
    minimum spacing between things and around the edges, etc. Most of
    this info cam be placed into a design rules file, like [this one
    from
    SparkFun](http://www.spcoast.com/pub/download/eagle/SparkFun10mil.dru).
-   EagleCad\'s net classes (under the Edit menu) let you associate
    trace widths and drill sizes with types of traces. I usually specify
    \"power\", \"signal\" and sometimes \"DCC\", with minimum widths of
    24, 10 and 80 (or sometimes, 120)

EagleCad\'s design rule check command uses this file to check and
validate your project against these constraints. While you can ignore
and clear violations, it is prudent to at least understand why a
particular layout is violating these constraints.

-   Component choices matter. Parts with the same footprint may appear
    to have the same functionality, but the datasheets may well say
    otherwise.
    -   open collector outputs -vs- TTL: The latter can both source and
        sink current, the former can only sink it.
    -   Capacitors have secondary characteristics that may matter - ESR
        is an indication of how much \"resistance\" a capacitor
        introduces into an AC circuit; you design might not care, or
        maybe it does, and won\'t work as expected with the wrong one.
    -   Heat kills components. Remember I = V/R W = V \* I
        -   Pick your trace widths with their current capacity in mind.
        -   Use ground planes and pours as heat sinks under and around
            voltage regulators.
    -   High currents usually mean noise, especially in designs with
        microcontrollers and analog inputs. google(ground plane app
        note) will give you several good refresher references\...

1.  When \"done\", skip ahead to the Submit to Fab section \...
