---
project: project_design
title: Fabrication
---

If you have a Mac or Linux system, simply use the Makefiles I showed you
earlier.

They invoke a couple of shell scripts to

-   generate CAM processor output files (aka gerbers)
-   archive copies of everything in a Archive hierarchy
-   zip the gerbers in a form used by fab houses
-   copy the zip file to a \"pending orders\" directory
-   (I also run `cd ..;upload2web _project_` to update this
    website\....)

Rename the gerber zip file created by the doEagle script to reflect the
board size and color desired:\<br \\\>
`#x#-GREEN-LocalPanel-1.0.gerbers.zip`\<br \\\> to\<br \\\>
`10x10-BLUE-LocalPanel-1.0.gerbers.zip`\<br \\\>

Point your browser to the Seeed website\'s [Fusion
product](https://www.seeedstudio.com/service/index.php?r=pcb) and upload
the zip file. I tend to choose:

:   2 layer
:   1.6mm thickness is OK
:   Hasl is OK, ENIG gives you really beautiful gold plated pads for
    \$20 more, not usually worth it for me)
:   1oz Copper weight is sufficient unless you are building circuits
    that carry DCC track current, where you may find the added trace
    thickness that 2oz gives you useful.

If you have several boards to fab at the same time (i.e., a group order
for all your friends in the area\...), it is worth it to pay more for
expedited shipping - while the free shipping may get to the US in a week
or so, I\'ve had it take 6 weeks. UPS\'s worldwide express for \$40
isn\'t as bad as it feels - you still get 10 boards for \$50 with a
small order\...

CAM
---

At its heart, the EagleCAD CAM processing simply takes the contents of
specific layers and creates a toolpath file (aka gerber G-Code) that
\"renders\" it. You can choose which layers go into each gerber file in
the CAM processor UI. Before I wrapped up the CAM processing with [a
script](doEagle "wikilink"), I settled on
[JMP-gerber](JMP-gerber "wikilink") as my CAM job file.

The key points to remember are:

1.  CAM job files control which \"Eagle Layers\" get smooshed into each
    gerber file.
2.  Each gerber file contains graphic data for one part of the finished
    PCB (top copper, bottom copper, silkscreen\...)
3.  whatever ends up in a gerber file gets used for that part of the
    PCB.

This leads to the kinds of mistakes that make you feel really foolish
(yup, all from boards I\'ve made\...):

-   If you tell Eagle to put your tName, tValue, tDocu and Document
    layers into the Top Copper Layer (.GTL), all your labels and text
    strings get \"printed\" in copper on that layer, shorting out the
    real traces\...
-   If you tell Eagle to put your Top layer onto the Top Silkscreen
    (.GTO) instead of the Top Copper layer, you get a board with no
    traces on top (but a pretty silkscreen to remind you forever\...)
-   If you forget to put component tNames, tValues, Document or tDocu
    into the Top Silkscreen (.GTO) gerber file, or if you forget to
    include the file altogether, your board won\'t have any top
    silkscreen.

You really should inspect the resulting gerber files to ensure they
contain what you think they should contain! All these errors would have
been obvious if I\'d only looked at the files before sending them out to
be fab\'d.

-   On the Linux and Mac, the gerbv utility (requires XQuartz and fink
    on MacOS) is useful to inspect the resulting gerber files
-   You can use an [Online Gerber Viewer](http://www.gerber-viewer.com/)
    instead if you don\'t wish to install gerbv.

For reference, here\'s what I put into each gerber file:

> Top Copper gerb274x .GTL
> :   Layers=Dimension, Top, Pads, Vias
>
> Bottom Copper gerb274x .GBL
> :   Layers= Dimension, Bottom, Pads, Vias
>
> Top SolderPaste gerb274x .GTP
> :   Layers=Dimension, tCream
>
> Top Silkscreen gerb274x .GTO
> :   Layers=Dimension, tPlace, *tValues*, tDocu
>
> Bottom Silkscreen gerb274x .GBO
> :   Layers=Dimension, bPlace, *bValues*, bDocu
>
> Top Soldermask gerb274x .GTS
> :   Layers=Dimension, tStop
>
> Bottom Soldermask gerb274x .GBS
> :   Layers=Dimension, bStop
>
> Drill File EXCELLON .TXT
> :   Layers=Drills, Holes

Notes:

-   Some board houses only need the Dimension layer on one of the gerber
    files; I put it into every file to avoid problems.
-   For Seeed Fusion, at least, there is no extra cost for a Bottom
    Silkscreen (GBO) - I use it for SPCoast branding and graphics to
    make all my boards have something in common with each other.
-   My Production boards don\'t get the \*Names or \*Values layers put
    into the silkscreen gerbers - the boards look cleaner without the
    text printed on them, and I don\'t need it when stuffing the boards.
-   Unless explicitly instructed to by your board house, NEVER check the
    mirror, rotate or \"upside down\" boxes in the CAM processor.
-   The Top Solderpaste (GTP) gerber file/CAM section is optional - I
    use SMT components, and use the GTP file to create a solder paste
    stencil (see [Ohararp](http://ohararp.com/))

Automation
----------

Once you have run the CAM processor, you have a directory full of
\"artifacts\" that need to be packed up in a form used by board fab
houses. I\'ve written a shell script that validates the artifacts, packs
them into zip (and/or tar) archives, archives them along with copies of
the .sch and .brd files that were used to create them, and places copies
into a \"current orders\" directory for convenience in sending multiple
boards in a single order.

See: [makeboard](makeboard "wikilink") (Shell script)

After running this script in your current project subdirectory, you end
up with a project directory that contains:

:   OctopusAdapter/

    :   1.0/

        :   eagle.epf
        :   OctopusAdapter.brd
        :   OctopusAdapter.parts.txt
        :   OctopusAdapter.sch
        :   Archive/

            :   Gerbers.OctopusAdapter.2013-12-15-17:14:17/

                :   OctopusAdapter.sch
                :   OctopusAdapter.brd
                :   OctopusAdapter.eagle.tar
                :   OctopusAdapter.gerbers.tar.gz
                :   OctopusAdapter.gerbers.zip
                :   OctopusAdapter.GBL
                :   OctopusAdapter.GBO
                :   OctopusAdapter.GBS
                :   OctopusAdapter.GTL
                :   OctopusAdapter.GTO
                :   OctopusAdapter.GTP
                :   OctopusAdapter.GTS
                :   OctopusAdapter.TXT

as well as

:   \~/Current\_PCB\_Order/

    :   \#x\#-GREEN-OctopusAdapter.gerbers.zip
    :   OctopusAdapter.GTP

The intent is for you to rename the \#x\#\... file to reflect the actual
size and features you need to order; I renamed this file to

:   

    :   5x5-BLUE-1.0-HASL-OctopusAdapter.gerbers.zip

for a 5cmx5cm board with Blue soldermask, a 1.0mm thickness and HASL
plating. You may also want to add an order number to the name to help
the board house track your files.
