---
project: project_design
title: Panels
---
:   How do I put several copies of my board design on the same PC board?

You can have the fab house do it for you {#you_can_have_the_fab_house_do_it_for_you}
----------------------------------------

See [Seeed PCB panelization
rules](http://support.seeedstudio.com/knowledgebase/articles/388503-what-are-the-pcb-panelization-rules).

You need to document things like panel standoffs, rails and V-Cuts on
your PCB outlines (Dimension/Milling layers)

You can do it yourself {#you_can_do_it_yourself}
----------------------

As many others did (re: google(eaglecad panel)), I struggled with
different ways to efficiently panelize my final board layout, for cost
effective fabrication. I tried ULPs that renumbered components, I tried
copy/pasting and laying things out again, and finally I saw a suggestion
that caused me to do the old shrug-and-then-slap-forehead routine: Break
the link between the schematic and board, then simply lay out multiple
copies of the board itself in the .brd file, CAM it and voila! The
downside is that part numbers on the copies get changed, but since I
don\'t put part numbers on the silkscreen, it doesn\'t matter to me.

> 1.  Save your final design to a new subdirectory (e.g., 1.1-panel),
> 2.  close the schematic window (to sever the auto-consistency magic -
>     you will see a warning message, idnore it),
> 3.  DISPLAY ALL layers,
> 4.  GROUP everything,
> 5.  set the DIM grid snap to the exact width (or height, depending on
>     which way you are replicating) of your board
> 6.  then COPY GROUP as many times as you need to make your panel
> 7.  DISPLAY NONE,
> 8.  DISPLAY only the Dimension layer,
> 9.  GROUP all the board dimension outlines,
> 10. CHANGE their LAYER to another layer (say, tDocu),
> 11. DISPLAY all layers again and create a new board outline in the
>     Dimension layer for the entire panel.

easy, duh!
