---
project: project_design
title: Libraries
---
EagleCAD libraries suffer from decades of cruft accumulation, neglect
and changing capabilities. If you want a simple piece of advice,

-   **Never trust someone else\'s library**!

If you didn\'t create it, you don\'t *really* know what is in it
or if it really works. The part may be obsolete, the outline or holes
wrong, it may generate DRC errors when used, etc etc etc. Yes, certain
parts (resistors\...) may \"just work\" for you, but the chances are
that sometime in the future you will get bit. For example, there are
package footprints for SO-16 PCF8574 I2C expanders in the Eagle
Libraries that can not be obtained - if you design a board around an
un-obtanium package, you will be unpleasantly surprised when Mouser,
Digikey or Farnell/Newark can not find the part for you! (if this
happens AFTER you sent the gerbers out to get fab\'d, you end up with
[drink
coasters](https://www.google.com/webhp?sourceid=chrome-instant&ion=1&espv=2&ie=UTF-8#q=circuit%20boards%20as%20drink%20coasters)\...)

Having said that, [SparkFun\'s
Libraries](https://github.com/sparkfun/SparkFun-Eagle-Libraries) and
[Adafruit\'s](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit-Eagle-Library) are
both a safe bet.

My \"work in progress\" library is
\[<http://>`{{SERVERNAME}}`{=mediawiki}/pub/download/docs/Documents-PCB-Design-howto-SPCoast.lbr
SPCoast.lbr\]

Remember, you can use the `exp-project-lbr.ulp` EagleCAD provided ULP to
extract library parts out of an existing EagleCAD project (.scr and .brd
file set)

Recomended: See KTOWN\'s great [tutorial on creating Eagle Library
Components](https://learn.adafruit.com/ktowns-ultimate-creating-parts-in-eagle-tutorial/introduction).

What makes a good library? {#what_makes_a_good_library}
--------------------------

-   The parts should have all been tested and validated with real parts
    on a real pcb.
-   Components should all be laid out so that they \"fit\" together when
    used in a 0.100\" (100 mil) schematic grid and a 0.05\" (50mil) PCB
    grid
    -   Schematic: All Part PINs and package centers must be on a 0.100
        (100mil) grid
    -   PCB: Package centers should be on 0.05 (50mil) grid
    -   Of course, package pins need to conform to the actual physical
        part layout dimensions
    -   Many times it is nice to have the symbol in the schematic use a
        logical instead of physical layout.
-   All components should have standard names
    -   U\# - Integrated Circuits
    -   Q\# - Transistors, FETs
    -   R\#/C\#/L\# - Resistors, Capacitors, Inductors
    -   Y\# - Crystals and Resonators, Antennas, too!
    -   D\# - Diodes (LEDs, Shottkey, Zener\...)
    -   S\# - Switches
    -   JP\# Jumper pins
    -   J\# Jacks, connectors, headers
-   You may find a library component that complains about not having a
    \"user definable value\"
    -   To fix: edit the DEVICE in the library and check the VALUES
        checkbox, then save and update the library.
-   Names with Dollar signs (U\$3) indicate that a library component has
    no Prefix.
    -   To fix: edit the DEVICE in the library and change the PREFIX to
        one of the above names, save and update the library.
-   Silkscreen layers (I use \*Name, \*Value, \*Place, \*Docu, but not
    Reference) MUST NOT impinge on any Pad - DRC warnings and ugly silk
    screens will result.
    -   To fix: edit the PACKAGE in the Library to fix, save and then
        update.

What makes a good part footprint? {#what_makes_a_good_part_footprint}
---------------------------------

-   All parts need \>NAME and \>VALUE, both in the SYMBOL and on each
    PACKAGE.
-   \>NAME must be on the tNames layer, \>VALUE must be on the tValue
    layer.
-   For PACKAGES, \>NAME and \>VALUE should be at least 32mil in size if
    you want to be able to read them on the board
-   For SYMBOLS, \>NAME and \>VALUE should be 70mil in size
-   All PACKAGEs need tPlace indicators of their mechanical size and
    orientation.
    -   Do NOT cover pads or bare copper with any tPlace, tName, tValue
        or tDocu layer items.
-   The ORIGIN of the symbol or package must be located in the
    **center** of the part.
    -   Where possible, the part should be symmetric around both the X
        and Y axises.
-   Every new part must have a DESCRIPTION containing part information
    and an indication as to whether the part has been proven in a
    prototype.
    -   Use VARIANTS to distinguish between DIP, PDIP, SOIC (etc)
        package variations.
    -   You can use ATTRIBUTES to record vendor names and part numbers;
        the various BOM ULPs can extract them later.
-   Symbol pin lengths should be short by default.
-   Group POWER pins together on the left side of the symbol, I/O pins
    on the right.
-   Group banks of functionally similar pins together (all VCC, all GND,
    all N/Cs, I2C,\...)
    -   The pin direction setting defines the logical direction of
        signal flow. It is essential for the Electrical Rule Check (ERC)
        and for the automatic wiring of the power supply pins. The
        following possibilities may be used:

:   

    :   {\|

\|NC \|\| not connected \|- \|In \|\| input \|- \|Out \|\|output
(totem-pole) \|- \|IO \|\|in/output (bidirectional) \|- \|OC \|\|open
collector or open drain \|- \|Hiz \|\|high impedance output (e.g.
3-state) \|- \|Pas \|\|passive (for resistors, capacitors etc.) \|-
\|Pwr \|\|power input pin (Vcc, Gnd, Vss, Vdd, etc.) \|- \|Sup
\|\|general supply pin (e.g. for ground symbol) \|}

:   

    :   Default: IO
    :   If Pwr pins are used on a symbol and a corresponding Sup pin
        exists on the schematic, nets are connected automatically. The
        Sup pin is not used for components.
